Alright so yesterday josh and i were able to get out and finally complete a mission using auto pilot that was successful. These are notes on the first section of this project prior to moving onto next steps. Josh and I plan on setting up a GitHub pages site here in the coming days and weeks and i think that a summary will be handy. So from the last few notes on ESC testing and the first test run I present a timeline as I remember it.

1. We started the mods after the first run by adding a big chonky aluminum heat sync. this was nessicary becuase of the amount of heat generated by the ESCs in the waterproof box was overwhelming the ESCs and they seemed like they were overheating. Once this was done we went and tried the boat out again. 
2. The second major mission, after the heatsink got added went better than the first. this time the issue we noted after the first run with the WIFI telemetry was much more prevalent. we could only get the boat about 50 feet away with good line of sight before we lost connection to the boat and things failed. could have also been a bit of an overload of the beagle-bones WIFI capability's or a chip issue. I do want to note that the control method of having each motor having its own intendant throttle controls as well as having its own servo for full 360 thrust direction. I really would like to revisit this idea in a version 2 but with putting the motor in the water or maybe just as an air motor for steering latitude. More to come?
3. We determined that we needed to get some proper telemetry radios instead of the WIFI setup we were using. the telemetry radios Sik V3 radios i think. The problem with the Sik radios was that we were able to verify that they worked well with the Pixhawk flight controllers once I fixed the connectors. I had to solder and create my own connectors to plug in the radio to the Pixhawk. this was annoying but not that bad and not unexpected given these things work with lots of difrent flight controllers. 
4. We started with the telemetry radios with the Pixhawk josh got for use with his tank robot, this was going to be used because A. Josh likes tank robots, and B. We figured that we should learn how to setup a UAV mission on land instead of on water. if we messed up on water I would have had to go for a swim. learning to use the tank Bot as autonomous rover would allow us to figure out how the software works for route planning. During the tank bot section of this project, I designed a 3d printed enclosure for the electronics of the tank bot, and josh worked on exploring Lua code, and also getting more knowledge of setting up Ardupilot. We ran into some problems with the power for the tank bot. Josh picked up a couple of sabretooth motor drivers which worked great for driving the motors, however we did need to add a big stupid nose to the bots design to hold the 2s battery. there was no way to stuff this battery inside the enclosure. I also added a fan and fan intake with the goal of preventing water intrusion to the tanks electronics. this was ill advised as we never found the need to cool the inside of the tank and the weight of the tail added to the back for the tank made the thing very back heavy and we did have a few instances of the tank falling over on its back when going over terrain features during its maiden mission. that mission did tell us a lot about how the autopilot mapping works so we called that portion a success and I started messing around with the boat again.
5. We also learned from the tank Bot that setting up a regular radio receiver with the Pixhawk as a backup to the telemetry radios is an excellent option for control in the field. josh did most of this work and it was very helpful going forward. 
6. At this point the goal was to get the telemetry radios installed on the boat. this did not work with the beagle-bone blue. I think that I got the beagle-bone blue to accept the telemetry via USB but we were still dealing with the problems of the beagle-bone with the GPS.
7. We took the boat to lake Whatcom one of the major things we learned during this trip was that the beagle-bone blue does not seam to want to accept the Adafruit GPS board that I had on hand. These things, coupled with the frankly strange way  the thing powered the servo rail, made us shift from the beagle-bone blue to a more standard Pixhawk 4a, 2a whatever its called. its the normal one to use and is heavily supported in Ardupilot's documentation. I did like working with the beagle-bone blue and I can see myself coming back to it as an option for companion computer. It does have lots of quirks that can make it a difficult choice for some of these robotics projects. We also learned on this trip that the 4s batteries do a good enough job providing thrust to push the boat though about 5 knots of wind. this was really impressive as the wind was pretty strong this day. We also decided on this outing that we would ultimately have to lose the really cool control scheme we had going with each motor being able to spin independently of the other and the throttles being independently controlled.
8. Once the Pixhawk and functional GPS got installed in the boat, josh and i took the thing to the pond near my house. This was a huge upgrade of location compared to the lakes we had been testing at before. this place is close and quite easy to get access to the water. The first op we did with the Pixhawk on the boat went ok. the manual control mode was fine but we ran into some major issues with the autopilot. The Pixhawk at this time was mounted inside the boat on the underside of the lid, upside down and also the Pixhawk's arrow indicating forward was pointing 90 degrees off from the boats forward if that makes sense. This is supposedly something that can be corrected in software but we were unable to make that happen at the lake and I was unable to make it work after we finished the mission when I got the boat back home. To solve the problem I ended up 3d printing a simple bracket to locate the Pixhawk correctly in the box. 
9. The next mission was difficult. We had high hopes for this one as we had relocated the Pixhawk, had good telemetry, GPS signal, and everything seemed to be ready to go. this mission ended up taking place in the early evening and ultimately was a nighttime mission. We only had the 2s batteries and nominally charged 4s batteries to use on this mission. I don't think that contributed to the problems we had but it is hard to say how much the thrust of the motors played into the problems we had. We were able to verify that manual control worked and the toggle to auto mode also worked using joshes controller. I think we had messed with settings in the Ardupillot options that made our mission fail. We were able to start a mission and hit waypoints but the steering was WAAAAAAY off. if the boat hit one waypoint, it had no idea how to turn to the next waypoint. I dont really know what all we changed as we have a habbit of changing lots of settings without documentation when things are going wrong. We had fun on this mission but wow it did not want to follow a route. We ended up figuring that there was a problem with the PID loop for the steering and we resolved to mess with it the next time we went out after looking into the Ardupilot wiki. 
10. for The most recent mission we did yesterday we were able to get the boat to follow a path. Honestly I think that this worked so well because we set everything to defaults before the mission and only configurred the bare minimum items we would need to get an RC remote working and setting some values to limit the power used by the motors. We ended up using both the 4s and 2s batterys. both worked just fine and leads me to belive that the battery issues from last time did not contribute to the problems we saw in the last mission.  
